---
title: "Tax Time 2019"
excerpt: "Encouraging customers to reduce their high interest debts at tax time."
date: "2020-10-27"
last_modified_at: "2020-10-27"
---

## Summary

As part of my work at CBA, we designed a digital intervention which aimed to encourage customers to use their tax refunds to pay down high-interest debts. The intervention increased repayments shortly after customers received the tax refund (but not by the end of the statement cycle), reduced missed repayments, and increased subsequent spending.

See below for an outline of this project, or find the full report [here](https://finhealthnetwork.org/research/financial-health-solutions-using-tax-refunds-for-debt-repayment/).

## Background

Managing debt can be challenging for consumers - according to an ASIC report released in 2017, about one in five Australian credit card holders showed some indication of problematic debt.<sup id="a1">[1](#f1)</sup> The average Australian has a credit card balance of $3,200; the average Australian also receives a $2,500 tax refund. As the Financial Wellbeing team at CBA, we saw an opportunity to encourage customers to use their tax refunds to make a meaningful reduction in their debt.

## Eligibility

We were wary that it might not be the best decision for all customers to use their tax refunds for debt repayment. For example, if a customer was a transactor - someone who consistently pays off their credit card balance in full - then they might be better off saving their tax refund, investing it, or treating themselves with a purchase.

This led us to design an eligibility criteria, hoping to refine our target sample to include customers who were more likely to benefit from repaying their debts:

* Customers who were currently in arrears on any debt product
* Customers who had recently exited arrears
* Customers who had revolved on their credit card for the past 3 months, with a balance of at least $350

## Intervention

As we thought about the behavioural problem at-hand, we recognised a few challenges we were trying to solve for:

* People often view financial windfalls (e.g., bonuses) as differently to their earned income - and are more likely to spend them.
* By the time people receive their tax refunds, they may have already mentally spent the money (e.g., decided to use it on a holiday)
* Asking people to make a pre-commitment is difficult because it is uncertain how much one will receive as a tax refund and how much one's credit card balance will be at the time

Keeping this all in mind, we landed on a two-stage digital experience that we delivered via the CommBank mobile app:

* **Pre-tax message:** Customers received a message in June 2019 (i.e., before their tax refunds were available) suggesting that they could use their tax refunds to pay down high-interest debt and the benefits of doing so. We wanted to get customers thinking about how they could best use their tax refund. Customers could also opt into a simple reminder message, which we offered as a way for them to indicate their (soft) pre-commitment to debt repayment.
* **Post-tax message:** Upon receiving their tax refund, customers received a message encouraging them to use it to pay off their debt. We used a real-time trigger which detected receipt of the tax refund, hoping to catch customers before the money could be spent elsewhere. Customers who were interested would be taken through a repayment flow that we had designed to nudge them towards higher repayments (e.g., defaulting the repayment amount to the full tax refund).

## Key Insights

* **There was strong engagement with the pre-tax message, suggesting many customers had an intention to pay down debts.** Over 15% of customers engaged with the message; in comparison, other digital messaging campaigns tend to see single-digit engagement rates.
* **The post-tax message led to an increase in debt repayments shortly after receipt of the tax refund.** 43.2% of customers who received the post-tax message made a credit card repayment within 2 days of receiving their tax refund (compared to 40.5% in the control group - a 2.7 percentage point difference).
* **Although customers who received the post-tax message made higher repayments shortly after receiving their tax refund, this effect did not persist by the end of the statement cycle.** On average, customers who received the post-tax message made $25 larger repayments within 2 days of receiving their tax refund than customers who didn't. However, there were no statistically significant differences in repayment amounts between these groups by the end of the statement cycle. This suggests that the message encouraged some customers to pay *earlier*, but not necessarily pay *more*.
* **The post-tax message reduced missed repayments.** Customers who received the post-tax message were 0.5 percentage points less likely to miss their next credit card repayment compared to the control group.
* **Finally, an unexpected finding: receipt of the post-tax message resulted to increased credit card spending and subsequent balances.** The post-tax message led to $37 higher average balances one month later and $75 higher average balances three months later. It is unclear why this is the case; however, one possible explanation is there was some 'moral licensing effect', where customers felt good about paying down their debt and rewarded themselves by spending more.

If you are interested in reading more, see the [report](https://finhealthnetwork.org/research/financial-health-solutions-using-tax-refunds-for-debt-repayment/) we published in collaboration with the Financial Health Network!

## References

<b id="f1">1</b> [ASIC Report 580: Credit card lending in Australia](https://download.asic.gov.au/media/4801724/rep580-published-4-7-2018.pdf) [↩](#a1)
